Users and groups
Introduction:
Linux has users, similar to accounts on Windows and MacOS. Every user has their own home directory. Users can also be part of groups.
There is a special user called ‘root’. Root is allowed to do anything.
To gain temporary root permissions, you can type ‘sudo’ in front of a command, but that only works if you’re allowed to do that.

Some actions require (root) permissions.

Users, passwords, and groups are all stored in  (different) files across the system.
Requirements:
In Linux, a 'group' is a collection of users. The main purpose of 'groups' is to define a set of permissions (privileges) such as read, write or execute permissions for a given resource that can be shared with the users within the group. Users can be added to an existing group to use the privileges it grants.  

 

Key terms 

Root user  

The root user, also known as the superuser or administrator (administrator), is a special user account in Linux used for system administration. It is the most privileged user on the Linux system and it has access to all commands and files. 

 

Root permissions  

The root permissions stand for having full permission to read(r), write (w) and execute(x) any file. sudo = "Super User DO" sudo command in Linux is generally used as a prefix of a command that only superuser is allowed to execute. If you prefix "sudo" with a command, it will run that command with elevated privileges or in other words allow a user  to run a command as another user, such as the superuser.  

 

Assignment  

Create a new user in your VM. The new user must belong to an administrator group (admingroup) that also contains the user you created during installation. The new user must have a password. The new user must be able to use 'sudo'. Locate the files where users, passwords, and groups are stored. See if you can find your newly created user's details there. 


Link to the results of this exercise

 https://github.com/techgrounds/cloud-6-repo-AzizaAdam/blob/main/01_Linux_1/Lnx05-users-and-groups/IMG_20211208_224638.jpg



